---
layout: post
title: "2025-06-14 - Day 14 - 100 Days of Code"
description: ""
category:
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Hello, Friends -

Today I spent more than an hour stuck in a "modify/apply" loop, making tweaks to the Terraform code for eensy-etl project to get the function app (and necessary dependencies) to create in Azure. After today's misaventure I am abandoning the Terraform in this project for now. I'm going GUI. I really need to make progress on this project and butting up against Azure Terraform is not fun. So tomorrow I'll manually create the function app then start on the Java that will pull data from the Github API.

The week after Thanksgiving last year I spent a couple days in Washington DC visiting the National Gallery of Art. There are two buildings and an underground moving walkway to connect them. On the ceiling of the tunnel there is a light installation called Multiverse by Leo Villareal. I found it captivating; mesmerizing. I got off the walkway to stand and stare at the ceiling. And while staring at it, I had a thought: "I'm a software engineer, I can code this." That project held my attention for a couple months. The code I wrote for it started with create-react-app. Then, earlier this year, the job search fired up for real and the chasing-lights project was abandoned. Today I cleaned up a bunch of comments and finally pushed this to a repo. Right now that project does things, just not *all* the things. So I'm adding it to the "Ongoing Projects" list here because I want to give it some more attention.

Stay tuned...

Ongoing Projects:
1. Coding problems (Leetcode, HackerRank)
2. Eensy ETL
3. Exercism (you don't know about this one yet)
4. `events.js` (obfuscated code from two companies ago)
5. `chasing-lights`