---
layout: post
title: "Day 13   100 Days of Code"
description: ""
category: Coding
tags: [100DaysOfCode, Python]
date: 2017-01-23 23:21:00
---
{% include JB/setup %}

It was the exercises again and I managed to get two done.  One of them gave me just a little trouble with a return statement (more on that below).  The third one is not done.  It's doing something error-free, but the something is not 100% accurate.  Need more research.

Here is the link to [GitHub](https://github.com/SFoskitt/python_extra) and the exercises tonight were:

* 08\_is_palindrome.py
* 09\_is_member.py
* 10_overlapping.py

The first thing to give me a headache was is_palindrome.py.  I use JavaScript and Angular on the daily, so the concept of a return statement is not new to me.  But it tripped me up today in Python.  Either I forgot or didn't know that the Python script does not take a return statement, only their functions take a return statement.

The second thing to give me a headache was overlapping.py.  It operates on lists, and I'm having trouble getting the raw_input() method to produce a list.  I think this is not possible to do this with direct user input, but will likely require manipulating it somehow.  I'll take a stab at it again tomorrow.

When committing to a daily hour-long challenge like this, it seems like nothing - it seems so easy.  But when it comes down to actually fitting the hour into my life *__daily__* it's a little harder - that's the actual challenge.  When it comes to sitting down and doing the thing, remarkably it's not enough!  So a realization today is that when future-casting my time, an hour seems daunting.  But where the rubber meets the road, an hour is barely enough.


If this #100DaysOfCode is news to you, here’s day #1 with more information:
http://stephanietech.net/2017/01/06/100daysofcode/
https://github.com/SFoskitt/100-days-of-code/blob/master/log.md
